---
title: March 5th, 2021
date: 2021-03-05
summary: Discussed adding support for embedding arbitrary content in OSCAL models; how to determine document identity in a series of related revisions; and how to identify the latest, previous, and next revisions of an OSCAL document.
sidenav:
    enabled: false
---

## Slides

- What to do about ANY? ([PDF](../model-meeting-ANY.pdf)) presented by [Wendell Piez](https://github.com/wendellpiez).
- OSCAL document-id Discussion ([PDF](../document-id.pdf))  presented by [Stephen Banghart](https://github.com/stephenbanghart).

## Agenda

- What to do about ANY?

  Discuss if the OSCAL models should make use of XML Schema any and JSON Schema additionalProperties for extension.
- OSCAL `document-id` Discussion
  - How to uniquely identify a revision to a document in a series of revisions? [usnistgov/OSCAL#864](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/issues/864)
  - How to identify where to get the latest, previous, and next revisions in a series? [usnistgov/OSCAL#863](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/issues/863)

- Open discussion.

## Notes

- The discussion around ANY focused on use of the existing `link` mechanism to reference extra content vs embedded content using `<xsd:any/>` and `additionalProperties=true`.
- Use of `<xsd:any/>` and `additionalProperties=true`
  - Pros:
    - Easy to embed extended content
  - Cons:
    - Requires parsers to understand how to parse the extended content or skip it.
    - Adds complexity to the OSCAL models.
    - No way to support content conversion between XML<->JSON for non-standard content
    - Need to identify where to add these extension points in the OSCAL models
- Use of OSCAL `link`
  - Pros:
    - Already supported by the OSCAL models, no changes needed; keep it simple.
    - Extra linked content can be attached as a `back-matter/resource` to avoid having to retrieve content as a remote resource.
  - Cons:
    - Requires a secondary parse of the linked resource
- Consensus after discussion was to use the `link` approach for now. Can always add support for `<xsd:any/>` and `additionalProperties=true` in a later release.
- Consensus on the call was to accept the changes presented by Stephen with the following changes:
  - The link/rel `version-history` is not needed since the version history is already supported by the metadata/revisions list.
