# Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL) 

NIST is currently developing the Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL). OSCAL is a standard for representing information pertaining to the publication, implementation, and assessment of security controls in XML-based formats. A *control* is a safeguard or countermeasure designed to satisfy a set of defined security and/or privacy requirements. A set of security control definitions from a single source is known as an OSCAL *catalog*. Another important OSCAL concept is a *profile*, which is a set of security requirements for which meeting each requirement necessitates implementing one or more security controls. A profile is also called a *baseline* or *overlay*.

OSCAL is attempting to address a number of challenges around security controls and security control assessment. The core challenge, and one of the primary reasons for creating OSCAL, is that concepts like security controls and profiles are represented today largely in proprietary ways. In many cases they are written in prose documents that are imprecise, lead to differences in interpretation, and are not machine-readable, meaning that the prose instructions require someone to do data entry into a tool in order for the tool to use the information. 

Organizations are also struggling with information systems that have many different components. Some components require the use of different profiles per component; this is commonly the case with cloud environments. Also, cloud environments can be multitenant or have mixed ownership of components. We need to be able to assess the security of these systems against a number of requirements, owners, etc.—to do that simultaneously and provide these views to stakeholders. 

On top of that there are situations where a single system needs to support multiple regulatory frameworks. For example, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is a federal agency (Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) and NIST Cybersecurity Framework requirements) and a healthcare institution (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) requirements) that has credit card transactions (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)). There is no shortage of requirements for some organizations that have multiple regulatory frameworks. 

Assessing all these security controls is extremely complex. Because of that complexity, it’s largely a manual process today. The OSCAL project is trying to change that by standardizing how security controls are represented, how a control implementation for a given system is represented, and how that information is best used and reports generated in a standardized way that can be used by both humans and machines. That means formats are needed that can be generated by machines for communicating with other machines, but can also easily be reformatted so humans can read the information. By standardizing the representation of this information, OSCAL information can be interoperable by having a well-defined specification with information that’s going to be used, imported, and used interoperably for security control assessments. The goal is to keep OSCAL as simple as possible and provide extensive automation for tools to use.

OSCAL may be useful for many people, including operations personnel, security and privacy personnel, auditors and assessors, and policy personnel.

TBD: Add pointers to additional information. May want one for an OSCAL presentation.
