docs/content/learn/tutorials/_index.md, before:

---
title: Walkthrough Tutorials
suppresstopiclist: true
---

The following tutorials provide step-by-step walk-throughs explaining how to create OSCAL content of various types.

## [General Topics](general/)

- [Using the metadata section](general/metadata/): Explains use of the `metadata` section that is required to be provided in all OSCAL content.
- [Extending OSCAL models](general/extension/): Discusses how to use OSCAL properties and links to provided extended data in OSCAL content.

## [Control Layer Topics](control/)

- [Creating a Basic Control Catalog](control/basic-catalog/): Explains how to create a [catalog](/concepts/terminology/#catalog) of [controls](/concepts/terminology/#control) using the OSCAL [catalog model](/concepts/layer/control/catalog/).

## [Implementation Layer Topics](implementation/)

- [Creating a Basic Component Definition](implementation/simple-component-definition/): Teaches how to create a component-definition using the OSCAL [component definition](/concepts/layer/implementation/component-definition/) model.
- [Representing test validation information](implementation/validation-modeling/): Describes how to represent test validation information (e.g., FIPS-140-2) using a component in an OSCAL [component definition](/concepts/layer/implementation/component-definition/) or [system security plan](/concepts/layer/implementation/ssp/).

Commit message:

Profile Resolution Tutorial (#1784)
Profile tutorial (#1215)

Co-authored-by: Stephen Banghart <stephen.banghart@nist.gov>
Co-authored-by: Arminta Jenkins <arminta.jenkins@nist.gov>
Co-authored-by: Michaela Iorga <michaela.iorga@nist.gov>
Co-authored-by: Wendell Piez <wendell.piez@nist.gov>
Co-authored-by: A.J. Stein <alexander.stein@nist.gov>

docs/content/learn/tutorials/_index.md, after:

---
title: Walkthrough Tutorials
suppresstopiclist: true
---

The following tutorials provide step-by-step walk-throughs explaining how to create OSCAL content of various types.

## [General Topics](general/)

- [Using the metadata section](general/metadata/): Explains use of the `metadata` section that is required to be provided in all OSCAL content.
- [Extending OSCAL models](general/extension/): Discusses how to use OSCAL properties and links to provided extended data in OSCAL content.

## [Control Layer Topics](control/)

- [Creating a Basic Control Catalog](control/basic-catalog/): Explains how to create a [catalog](/concepts/terminology/#catalog) of [controls](/concepts/terminology/#control) using the OSCAL [catalog model](/concepts/layer/control/catalog/).
- [Creating a Basic Profile](/learn/tutorials/profile/): Explains how to create and modify a subset of controls from a catalog in OSCAL by using the OSCAL [profile model](/concepts/layer/control/profile/).
## [Implementation Layer Topics](implementation/)

- [Creating a Basic Component Definition](implementation/simple-component-definition/): Teaches how to create a component-definition using the OSCAL [component definition](/concepts/layer/implementation/component-definition/) model.
- [Representing test validation information](implementation/validation-modeling/): Describes how to represent test validation information (e.g., FIPS-140-2) using a component in an OSCAL [component definition](/concepts/layer/implementation/component-definition/) or [system security plan](/concepts/layer/implementation/ssp/).
