docs/content/learn/presentations/_index.md, before:

---
title: Instructional Videos, Presentations, and Blogs
suppresstopiclists: true
---

The following are presentations on OSCAL-related topics. Some of the older presentations were based on earlier versions of OSCAL, which may be slightly different from the current OSCAL releases. In such cases, the  content will still apply conceptually and will give you a good overview of the core OSCAL concepts.

- [Blog: Innovating Security Compliance Through Open Standards](https://blogs.easydynamics.com/2021/07/07/innovating-security-compliance-through-open-standards/) - July 7, 2021
- [Blog: The Foundation for Interoperable and Portable Security Automation is Revealed in NIST’s OSCAL Project](https://www.nist.gov/blogs/cybersecurity-insights/foundation-interoperable-and-portable-security-automation-revealed) - May 19. 2021
- [2nd NIST OSCAL Workshop](oscal-workshop-2021-02/) - February 2 & 3, 2021
- [Using Leveraged Authorizations in OSCAL](/presentations/oscal-leveraged-authorizations-v6a.pdf) presented during the [OSCAL Model Review](/contribute/model-review/) - July 24, 2020
- [OSCAL Assessment Models Overview](/presentations/oscal-ap-ar-poam-v3.pdf) presented during the [Lunch with the OSCAL Developers](/contribute/dev-lunch/) - July 2, 2020
- [NIST OSCAL Workshop](OSCAL-workshop-20191105.pdf) - November 5, 2019
- [Security Automation Simplified via NIST OSCAL: We're Not in Kansas Anymore](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP8K7piU5UQ) presented at RSA Conference 2018 - April 18, 2018
- [Automating Security and Compliance via a New Standard of Standards](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mo3J0tFxixg) presented at Docker Government Summit 2018 - April 11, 2018

Commit message:

Added OSCAL-deep-diff content to docs

docs/content/learn/presentations/_index.md, after:

---
title: Instructional Videos, Presentations, and Blogs
suppresstopiclists: true
---

The following are presentations on OSCAL-related topics. Some of the older presentations were based on earlier versions of OSCAL, which may be slightly different from the current OSCAL releases. In such cases, the  content will still apply conceptually and will give you a good overview of the core OSCAL concepts.

- [OSCAL Deep Diff Introduction](/presentations/OSCAL-deep-diff-LWtD-20220505.pdf) presented during the [Lunch with the OSCAL Developers](/contribute/dev-lunch/) - May 5, 2022
- [Blog: Innovating Security Compliance Through Open Standards](https://blogs.easydynamics.com/2021/07/07/innovating-security-compliance-through-open-standards/) - July 7, 2021
- [Blog: The Foundation for Interoperable and Portable Security Automation is Revealed in NIST’s OSCAL Project](https://www.nist.gov/blogs/cybersecurity-insights/foundation-interoperable-and-portable-security-automation-revealed) - May 19. 2021
- [2nd NIST OSCAL Workshop](oscal-workshop-2021-02/) - February 2 & 3, 2021
- [Using Leveraged Authorizations in OSCAL](/presentations/oscal-leveraged-authorizations-v6a.pdf) presented during the [OSCAL Model Review](/contribute/model-review/) - July 24, 2020
- [OSCAL Assessment Models Overview](/presentations/oscal-ap-ar-poam-v3.pdf) presented during the [Lunch with the OSCAL Developers](/contribute/dev-lunch/) - July 2, 2020
- [NIST OSCAL Workshop](OSCAL-workshop-20191105.pdf) - November 5, 2019
- [Security Automation Simplified via NIST OSCAL: We're Not in Kansas Anymore](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eP8K7piU5UQ) presented at RSA Conference 2018 - April 18, 2018
- [Automating Security and Compliance via a New Standard of Standards](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mo3J0tFxixg) presented at Docker Government Summit 2018 - April 11, 2018
