# Department of Veterans Affairs Scenario

> The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs agency provides a case study opportunity to highlight the benefits of using OSCAL to meet multiple regulatory frameworks. The work being performed by the OSCAL development community control catalogs and ability to build a custom security profile maps to the multiple regulatory frameworks agencies must meet. 

The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is a federal agency and therefore must comply with the Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) and NIST Cybersecurity Framework requirements. The agency is also a healthcare institution and must comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) requirements. The agency provides healthcare services where payments are collected and payments may be made by patients using a credit card. Credit card transactions must comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). The security controls and requirements associated with four separate frameworks increase the complexity for the agency to maintain the security posture of systems operating within its portfolio.

The scenario for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs highlights the complexity and necessity for agencies to meet multiple regulatory frameworks.

The OSCAL development community took this scenario into consideration when building the foundations of the project. The foundation elements of the control, catalog and profile are set up to permit selection from multiple catalogs of multiple controls and creation of a single profile that an agency may use to maintain compliance. The project will continue to work to make the products applicable to agencies that are required to meet multiple regulatory frameworks.