# Decisions of Interest for XML Schema Design and Validation

## Controls, not (only) the documents that describe them

OSCAL represents a domain-specific language for the expression of collections of security and privacy controls in a control catalog. Inevitably there is a metaphysical grey zone between controls and the language by which they are defined and described. OSCAL attempts to normalize the semantics used to describe controls by providing a single format for which multiple control catalogs (e.g., NIST SP 800-53/53a, ISO/IEC 27001/2, COBIT 5) can be expressed. By normalizing semantics across control catalogs, control information can be expressed more consistently, allowing similar types of information provided in different catalogs to be expressed in the same format. This degree of normalization allows related concepts such as baselines and overlays to be expressed in a profile that can reference controls from one or more catalogs in a consistent format.

## Validation

In order to enable catalog and profile-specific validation, we have developed an alternative validation model. This additional validation model, called "declarations", provides support for a second "document level" validation layer. This allows much of the complexity that OSCAL must support to be moved away from the base schema. This results in a simpler schema (base tag set). For a given catalog or profile, OSCAL can be configured, extended, and fitted to new control types and applications, with no schema modification at all, using declarations.

The new OSCAL offers a new validation model that will provide for easier customization. Instead of requiring schema aggregation or extension, customizing OSCAL is now accomplished by describing an "application usage" of OSCAL elements and class values (much like an HTML/CSS microformat). This set of constraints on controls can be expressed and codified in a set of OSCAL declarations, which can also provide a means of formal (runtime) enforcement. OSCAL declarations give developers and users the capability to define OSCAL control types without having to write any schema code.

## Relationship to other document formats
 
OSCAL captures chunks of transcribed natural/literate/technical language, i.e. "prose", but it also permits the rational arrangement of such chunks of language with more tightly controlled values (control properties and parameters). Applied systematically and at scale, such regular and rational arrangements enable higher-order transparencies that can translate into functionalities. In this, OSCAL goes further than documentary-description XML formats such as the National Information Standards Organization (NISO) Journal Article Tag Suite (JATS), the NISO Standard Tag Set (STS), the Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA), and other viable alternatives. This is not from OSCAL providing a "semantics" for "controls", but in offering a means by which an OSCAL application (or user or developer) may do so. Accordingly, it is expected that OSCAL would be complementary to any of the formats just mentioned.
