---
title: April 4th, 2020
date: 2020-04-23
summary: Reviewed current status, discussed renaming the `system-security-plan` and `plan-of-action-and-milestones` top-level elements in the respective OSCAL models, and held open discussion.
sidenav:
    enabled: false
---

## Slides

- Overview ([PDF](../slides-2020-04-23.pdf))

## Agenda

- Review closed and open pull requests in OSCAL repo.
- Discuss current work.
- Discuss renaming `system-security-plan` and `plan-of-action-and-milestones` elements in the respective OSCAL models to better align with how the data is produced, used, and referred to in other risk management frameworks
- Open discussion.

## Notes

- Brainstormed a few options for renaming `system-security-plan` and `plan-of-action-and-milestones` elements.

    Suggested names for `system-security-plan` included:

    - system-implementation
    - system-control(s)-implementation
    - ssp (using just the acronym)
    - system-descriptor
    - system

    There was some support for `system`. The emerging consensus seemed to be around keeping the name as-is for the OSCAL 1.x.

    Suggested names for `plan-of-action-and-milestones` included:

    - open action
    - milestone (since it highlights a deadline)
    - weakness (some consensus that this term is a bit too general and overused in other contexts)

    No emerging consensus around any given new name. The emerging consensus seemed to be around keeping the name as-is for the OSCAL 1.x.

- Adam Oline offered to provide a sample SSP in Word aligned with the data provided by CSAM. He is going to post this to issue [#364](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/issues/364). Once posted, we need to discuss how to get this converted into OSCAL format. Looking for volunteers to help with this.
