---
title: Challenges Addressed by OSCAL
description: OSCAL addresses a number of challenges related to the definition and assessment of security controls.
weight: 10
---

OSCAL addresses a number of challenges around security controls and security control assessment.

## Control Information Lacks Standardization

The core challenge, and one of the primary reasons for creating OSCAL, is that concepts like security controls and profiles are represented today largely in proprietary ways. In many cases they are written in prose documents that are imprecise, lead to differences in interpretation, and are not machine-readable; meaning that the prose instructions require someone to manually implement the control in information systems in order for the tool to use the information.

## Assessing Control Implementations Across Multiple Components

Organizations are also struggling with information systems that have many different components. Some components require the use of different profiles per component; this is commonly the case with cloud environments. Also, systems can be multi-tenant or have mixed ownership of components (often referred to as shared responsibility). Information system owners need to be able to assess the security of these systems against their specific requirements and to simultaneously provide these views to their stakeholders.

## Supporting Multiple Regulatory Frameworks Simultaneously

In addition, there are situations where a single system needs to support multiple regulatory frameworks. For example, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is a federal agency operating with multiple sets of regulatory frameworks together: the Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA); the NIST Cybersecurity Risk Management Framework; requirements relating to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA); and others relating to secure credit card transactions based on the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). This situation can be complicated.

## Documentation Reviews and Control Assessments are Largely Manual Processes

Because the definition and assessment of all these security controls is so complex, it is largely a manual process today. The OSCAL project seeks to change this situation by offering standardized representations for controls and their implementation in a system, which can be used by both humans and machines for development, analysis, and reporting. We need formats that can be generated by machines for communicating with other machines, but can also be easily reformatted so humans can read the information. By standardizing the representation of this information with a well-defined specification, OSCAL information is interoperable. The goal is to keep OSCAL as simple as possible while enabling extensive automation in vendor tools.
