docs/content/contribute/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Contribute"
heading: Welcome to the OSCAL Community
aliases:
  - /community/
menu:
  primary:
    name: Contribute
    weight: 90
  secondary:
    name: Get involved
    url: /contribute/
    weight: 10
toc:
  enabled: true
---

We are excited that you want to contribute to the OSCAL project. We are striving to provide a collaborative environment for professionals to contribute to the project's goals and objectives. A primary focus of this project is to improve security assessment efficiency, accuracy, and consistency on the basis of real-world experience with the technology used in this space. The language we develop must be well-defined, with easy to use formats.

## Contributing

We use GitHub as a collaboration platform for the development of the OSCAL models. Within the OSCAL GitHub repository you will find:

- A [set of issues](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) for which we need your help. Feel free to pick from this list, or [reach out to us](/contact/) about any other ideas you might have.
- [Guidelines](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) on contributing to this project.
- A [project board](https://github.com/orgs/usnistgov/projects/25) that shows the issues the team is currently working on.

You can connect with us and other developers working on OSCAL related projects on the [OSCAL Gitter](https://gitter.im/usnistgov-OSCAL/Lobby) or using the [oscal-dev@list.nist.gov mailing list](/contact/#oscal-mailing-lists).

## Community Meetings

The NIST OSCAL team hosts meetings with the OSCAL community on different topics.

- **Lunch with the OSCAL Developers**: A [bi-weekly meeting](dev-lunch/) hosted by the NIST OSCAL development team to share information about current development efforts, discuss issues, collect feedback on priorities, and to answer development-related questions.
- **OSCAL Model Review**: A [bi-weekly meeting](model-review/) hosted by the NIST OSCAL development team to update adopters on the latest improvements to the OSCAL models, and for community members to provide high-bandwidth feedback on concerns, gaps, and other issues with the OSCAL models.

We encourage you to attend these meetings as a way to keep up-to-date on and contribute to the development of OSCAL.

Commit message:

Update missed page with public meeting index.

docs/content/contribute/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Contribute"
heading: Welcome to the OSCAL Community
aliases:
  - /community/
menu:
  primary:
    name: Contribute
    weight: 90
  secondary:
    name: Get involved
    url: /contribute/
    weight: 10
toc:
  enabled: true
---

We are excited that you want to contribute to the OSCAL project. We are striving to provide a collaborative environment for professionals to contribute to the project's goals and objectives. A primary focus of this project is to improve security assessment efficiency, accuracy, and consistency on the basis of real-world experience with the technology used in this space. The language we develop must be well-defined, with easy to use formats.

## Contributing

We use GitHub as a collaboration platform for the development of the OSCAL models. Within the OSCAL GitHub repository you will find:

- A [set of issues](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) for which we need your help. Feel free to pick from this list, or [reach out to us](/contact/) about any other ideas you might have.
- [Guidelines](https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) on contributing to this project.
- A [project board](https://github.com/orgs/usnistgov/projects/25) that shows the issues the team is currently working on.

You can connect with us and other developers working on OSCAL related projects on the [OSCAL Gitter](https://gitter.im/usnistgov-OSCAL/Lobby) or using the [oscal-dev@list.nist.gov mailing list](/contact/#oscal-mailing-lists).

## Community Meetings

The NIST OSCAL team hosts meetings with the OSCAL community on different topics.

- **OSCAL Model Engineering Meeting**: A [bi-weekly meeting](model-engineering-meeting/) to discuss OSCAL models, how they are developed, and development efforts by NIST staff and the greater OSCAL community using them.
- **OSCAL DEFINE Meeting**: A [bi-weekly meeting](define-meeting/) meeting to discuss the research and educational pursuits of OSCAL using an iterative and collaborative approach with the community.

We encourage you to attend these meetings as a way to keep up-to-date on and contribute to the development of OSCAL.
